Hi guys.
We've got another great lab here on API gateway.
And in this lab we're going to build an API and that API is going to talk to Lambda. Lambda will have
a function that can then manipulate data in the dynamoDB database so we can delete we can get we can
post or put information in a dynamoDB table.
So that's what it looks like.
And we're going to use an article from AWS again and I'll take you over to that now.
So this one is called Create a simple micro service using lambda an API Gateway and we're actually going
to use a blueprint for this.
So it's really easy to get this configuration running so let's head over to the lambda console.
And the first thing we need to do is create our function.
So we're going to choose create function and we're going to select use a blueprint we're then going
to go down to blueprints and we're going to search for micro service
and we're going to choose this option micro service HTTP endpoints and then we click configure and
for the function name we're going to just call it lambda dash micro service and then for the role name
we're going to call it lambda API Gateway role and well they're going to choose a template in this case
it's actually created it for us so it's already got the simple micro service permissions selected the
only other thing we need to change is to select open for security
and it's going to create everything else for us.
So let's just go down and create function.
I just took a few seconds and we've now got our lambda micro service function.
And on the left hand side here we can see we have an API Gateway trigger which connects to this endpoint.
Now you can see the name is my function dash API.
So if we go to API gateway we now have this function which has actually been created if we just go back
to where we were there it says created by AWS lambda.
So that's been automatically created for us before we can test this out.
What we need to do is just go to dynamoDB and we're going to create a table
so we just click Create table.
This needs to be called my table.
We're just going to I.D. for the primary key we're going to need string selected and click Create.
Now let's go back over to lambda and what we're going to do is we're going to configure a test event
and we're going to take all this information just pull all of this out and we're going to paste this
information in and we're just going to call this my test and I'm going to click Create and that's been
done.
And so now we can click test so that succeeded.
Now let's click in the details and see what we got.
And we can see that we've got a status two hundred which is an okay message and we've got the body here
we've got items in this.
There's nothing there.
Count is zero.
So let's go back to our dynamodb table and go to items and let's create some items.
So let's just call this my item 1 and then we'll go in again and do my item two and let's go back to
lambda and just click test again.
So this time we can actually see some information in the console.
So just go back over to our diagram we can see we've got AWS lambda and what we've just done is configure
a test event here which connects to dynamoDB.
What we really want to do is test it from API Gateway and see if API Gateway sends the information to
Lambda checks dynamoDB and returns that information back to us.
So let's head back over to the console.
We're going to go to API Gateway this time so I'm in the API Gateway now and what I can do to test the
function is I can come down to the method.
And here we've got our method.
And I can click on Test and we can then choose which method we want to use and I'm going to choose get
and then I'm going to put table name equals and then the name of my table which is my table.
And if we click on Test we can now see the items that we have created before.
So if we then went back into dynamoDB being created a does call this the new item and now head back to
API Gateway and let's just hit test again and now we've got the new item there in the middle as well.
So using the test function in API Gateway we're able to send the request to Lambda and our lambda function
is executed a request to dynamoDB and then return that information back to us.
Another thing we could do is we could go back to API Gateway go down to stages and it's been deployed
into a default stage we could then come down to get and use this invoke you.
And with that we can then construct a URL that we can actually go through a browser and perform
the same query.
So let's just do that.
I've put together the url.
So all I needed to do was off the lambda micro service put a question mark table name equals my table
and I hit enter and there we go.
We can see we've been returned the list of items.
So that's it for this lab.
Very simple again.
Hope it all works out very well for you.
If not you can always send me a message or reach out in the Q&A forum.
I'm just going to go in and delete my resources.
So what we can do here is we choose the table and the delete table.
Go to API Gateway again we need to go up to our API.
Take the name of the API and then we're going to delete API and is paste that in and then go back to
lambda and we can choose our function and just delete the function.